---
title: "Countering extreme wildfires with prescribed burning can be counterproductive"
header:
  teaser: "assets/images/nature_logo.jpg"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
date:               24-05-07 22:20:20 +0000
categories:
  - 
tags:
  - wildfires

---
Renata Libonati argues in a World View article that megafires are here to stay, and that widespread prescribed burns are needed to manage the risk (Nature 627, 10; 2024). We agree on the problem, but disagree on the solutions.

In some woody ecosystems, disturbances, such as logging, thinning and even prescribed burning, can disrupt ecological controls on fire that maintained forests long before people arrived. Disturbances might provide short-term benefits, but at the cost of long-term increases in flammability that last for decades (D. Lindenmayer and P. Zylstra Biol. Rev. https://doi.org/gtfjv6; 2023). The increased long-term flammability means that once prescribed burning is applied, the need for it can become locked in. That is particularly dangerous when climate change is causing a major increase in the prevalence of high fire risk days.

There is also increasing evidence that prescribed burning has limited suppressive effect on property loss under extreme fire weather (P. Gibbons et al. PLoS ONE 7, e29212; 2012). Fresh insights on tackling megafires include how some natural vegetation transitions to a less flammable state, indicating a need to prioritize mature-forest protection in such ecosystems. It is also important to embrace new technologies, such as sensor arrays, drone fleets and autonomous aerial vehicles, to detect ignitions as soon as they occur, and rapidly suppress fires while they are still small.

[Read original](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-01341-9?WT.ec_id=NATURE-20240509&utm_source=nature_etoc&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=20240509&sap-outbound-id=205D5A81BD2505F5B1BC370ADD6DE1B4E4CAE2FA){: .btn .btn--success}


