---
title: "You’re not imagining it: extreme wildfires are now more common"
header:
  teaser: "assets/images/post_240624.jpg"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
date:               24-06-24 22:20:20 +0000
categories:
  - 
tags:
  - wildfires

---
You’re not imagining it: extreme wildfires are now more common
For the first time, data show that cataclysmic infernos are increasing in frequency and intensity globally.


The frequency at which extreme fires occur around the world has more than doubled during the past two decades, according to an analysis of satellite data1. The trend is driven by the exponential growth of extreme fires across vast portions of Canada, the western United States and Russia, researchers say.

The results provide the first solid evidence to support a nagging suspicion that many scientists and others have had as they watch a seemingly endless series of cataclysmic infernos scorch ecosystems and communities: wildfires have increased somehow, and climate change is almost certainly a factor.

“It’s the extreme events that we care about the most, and those are the ones that are increasing quite significantly,” says lead author Calum Cunningham, an ecologist at the University of Tasmania in Hobart, Australia. “Surprisingly, this has never been shown at a global scale.”
Heating up

Researchers have already documented an increase in wildfire activity across the western forests of the United States2, but they have had a harder time pinning down a clear global trend. One confounding factor is that the amount of land burned annually has been declining, in part owing to a steady reduction in fire activity in African grasslands and savannahs.

For the current study, published in Nature Ecology and Evolution on 24 June1, Cunningham and his colleagues scoured global satellite data for fire activity. They used infrared records to measure the energy intensity of nearly 31 million daily fire events over two decades, focusing on the most extreme ones — roughly 2,900 events. The researchers calculated that there was a 2.2-fold increase in the frequency of extreme events globally in 2003–23, and a 2.3-fold boost in the average intensity of the top 20 most intense fires each year (see ‘Rising fire intensity’).

[Read original](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-02071-8?WT.ec_id=NATURE-202406&sap-outbound-id=6F94A467F2CDD62D9B48B38407D66B2F17338F90){: .btn .btn--success}




